TODOs.md, before:

TODOs:

- Add most/all standard methods from TraversableOnce (note that it shows how to write toList as a call to collect using
  @uncheckedVariance), and from Iterable and Seq.
- Add pusher/puller, and convenience methods to interface multiple streams
- Probably make some things in the run.* interfaces private
- Decide on FastFuture vs async/await vs Func vs branching manually on Future.isCompleted, and document in README
- More combinators
- AsyncBuffer
- Support `take` somehow. Maybe we can emit an EOF to downstream, and then not return from onNext until the stream is
  completed. Or maybe we should really throw a DownstreamDeclaredEOF subscription to upstream - but then would upstream
  user code need to have a chance to do something about it, as with onError?
- Copy to main project (presumably in a different namespace like streams2 for the duration of the migration)
- Maybe make Consumer a trait, and replace instantiations with implementations where possible to save the cost of extra Funcs
- Replace calls to XxxFunc.apply with new XxxFunc implementations. This includes combinators in Func.scala as well as
  external uses.
- Convenience xxxAsync constructors take functions A => Future[B] instead of A => ExecutionContext => Future[B]
  because I can't figure out the syntax for an anonymous function taking implicit arguments
- Add xxxAsync/xxx/xxxFunc triplets to all appropriate constructors on Sink, Source, Transform (matching SourceOps)
- Add general docs about families of methods to Sink, Transform, SourceOps, and mention them in the README
- I really doubt if ALL my uses of @uncheckedVariance are legal
- Note explicitly in README that methods should always declare to return a Pipe even when they use a single Transform to implement it.
- Stop SyncFunc extending Function1; it inherits combinators such as .andThen which are confusing since they don't
  create Funcs (unless we override them)
- Iterable.empty is a def not a val, and it's relatively expensive! Should make a val of my own and replace all usages in core lib.
- Add SourceOps .onError
- Add a note to the README about the push-through model
- Document Pipe.flatten better in the README, including noting the point of asynchronicity on input
- Add Source and Sink and StreamResult flatteners
- Why are Source, Sink constructors not in StreamInput, StreamOutput? Just for simplicity / usability / less typing,
  but it makes the API less regular...
- Use of Pipe constructors is cumbersome: have to keep track manually of source segment, because the DSLs really build up
  only the downstream side. The .pipe methods are not enough. See e.g. in the Foresight source, what
  HtmlManipulator.manipulatorPipe has to do with `uncompressor` and `tapper`. It's too easy to get this wrong if even I
  do so half the time!
- Make SourceOps methods return a Source[Next] when used on a Source


These v1 patterns need v2 equivalents + docs: 

- Often library code has to provide a StreamOutput with a non-Unit result. E.g., HashingUtil provides a Sink[ByteString]
  that calculates a hash. But it may have internal components (i.e. be composed of a Pipe + an actual StreamOutput).
  This limits it to a Sink type, and not a StreamOutput, but then it doesn't have a result. What to do?
- SprayAckStream inner class AckActor needs to fail the outer sink (= the stream) asynchronously in some cases,
  but it only has access to the Sink model, not the running component. The problem is that AckActor is instantiated
  in a special and ugly way which must be called synchronously from its to-be-Parent actor...

Commit message:

Rename Source constructors to avoid confusion with the Source case class's autogenerated `apply` companion constructor

TODOs.md, after:

TODOs:

- Add most/all standard methods from TraversableOnce (note that it shows how to write toList as a call to collect using
  @uncheckedVariance), and from Iterable and Seq.
- Add pusher/puller, and convenience methods to interface multiple streams
- Probably make some things in the run.* interfaces private
- Decide on FastFuture vs async/await vs Func vs branching manually on Future.isCompleted, and document in README
- More combinators
- AsyncBuffer
- Support `take` somehow. Maybe we can emit an EOF to downstream, and then not return from onNext until the stream is
  completed. Or maybe we should really throw a DownstreamDeclaredEOF subscription to upstream - but then would upstream
  user code need to have a chance to do something about it, as with onError?
- Copy to main project (presumably in a different namespace like streams2 for the duration of the migration)
- Maybe make Consumer a trait, and replace instantiations with implementations where possible to save the cost of extra Funcs
- Replace calls to XxxFunc.apply with new XxxFunc implementations. This includes combinators in Func.scala as well as
  external uses.
- Convenience xxxAsync constructors take functions A => Future[B] instead of A => ExecutionContext => Future[B]
  because I can't figure out the syntax for an anonymous function taking implicit arguments
- Add xxxAsync/xxx/xxxFunc triplets to all appropriate constructors on Sink, Source, Transform (matching SourceOps)
- Add general docs about families of methods to Sink, Transform, SourceOps, and mention them in the README
- I really doubt if ALL my uses of @uncheckedVariance are legal
- Note explicitly in README that methods should always declare to return a Pipe even when they use a single Transform to implement it.
- Stop SyncFunc extending Function1; it inherits combinators such as .andThen which are confusing since they don't
  create Funcs (unless we override them)
- Iterable.empty is a def not a val, and it's relatively expensive! Should make a val of my own and replace all usages in core lib.
- Add SourceOps .onError
- Add a note to the README about the push-through model
- Document Pipe.flatten better in the README, including noting the point of asynchronicity on input
- Add Source and Sink and StreamResult flatteners
- Why are Source, Sink constructors not in StreamInput, StreamOutput? Just for simplicity / usability / less typing,
  but it makes the API less regular...
- Use of Pipe constructors is cumbersome: have to keep track manually of source segment, because the DSLs really build up
  only the downstream side. The .pipe methods are not enough. See e.g. in the Foresight source, what
  HtmlManipulator.manipulatorPipe has to do with `uncompressor` and `tapper`. It's too easy to get this wrong if even I
  do so half the time!
- Make SourceOps methods return a Source[Next] when used on a Source
- Because methods like SourceOps.foreach take generic arguments, you can't write source.foreach(println(_)), you have to
  write explicitly source.foreach((x: String) => println(x)). Can this be fixed?

These v1 patterns need v2 equivalents + docs: 

- Often library code has to provide a StreamOutput with a non-Unit result. E.g., HashingUtil provides a Sink[ByteString]
  that calculates a hash. But it may have internal components (i.e. be composed of a Pipe + an actual StreamOutput).
  This limits it to a Sink type, and not a StreamOutput, but then it doesn't have a result. What to do?
- SprayAckStream inner class AckActor needs to fail the outer sink (= the stream) asynchronously in some cases,
  but it only has access to the Sink model, not the running component. The problem is that AckActor is instantiated
  in a special and ugly way which must be called synchronously from its to-be-Parent actor...
